"financial question answering," 
"small language models," "financial reasoning," 
"FinQA dataset,"   "reasoning  in   language  models". 

..........FINQA   :
*the   problem  is   :   analyzys  
  automation   in  qa 
*also the  reasonging   in  QA  is   
 veyr   simple 
and  one  step.  
* the   question   is  -    how this 
 proccess  can 
 be  dome  better   ? 
*All you need to know about Question-Answering (QA)
 systems built using NLP: 
QA systems use a variety of techniques, 
including 
natural language understanding, 
information retrieval,
 and machine learning,
  to extract the relevant information from a given 
  text corpus
 and generate an answer to a user’s question.
open  resources  and  closed  resource  types .

--domain    based   QA  is  my  focus .
https://www.unthinkable.co/blog/all-you-need-to-know-about-question-answering-qa-systems-built-using-nlp/
*RAG  AND  IR   MECHANISMS 
*The two main techniques for adaptation are fine-tuning
 and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG).
Fine-Tuning Techniques and Methods:
.full   fine tuning 
.adapter  based 
.promt  based 
.distillation
.sparse   / low rank  /  prunning
*Introduction to Retrieval Augmentation:
https://medium.com/@bijit211987/fine-tuning-and-rag-tailoring-language-models-to-your-needs-69ca9e1c2c70
FinQANet (RoBERTa-large) 61.24 58.8

........A Numerical Reasoning Question Answering
 System with Fine-grained
Retriever and the Ensemble of Multiple Generators
 for FINQA

69%
*later    you  will  have to   analyse  the
  dataset   
as  well  as  to  read   paper    again .
* test set in FinQA
Competition.  that  is  the  goal  .
*they  use   Ensemble   generators .
*later     you  will  have to   read   paper   
in  depth  so  
you learn all the   prerequisites .
-  maybe   you  can  for  the   Ensemble language  models :
https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2018/06/comprehensive-guide-for-ensemble-models/



....................DeBERTa   for  finqa 
We use the method based on DeBERTa pre-trained 
language model, with additional optimization 
methods including multimodel fusion, training 
set combination on this
basis. We finally obtain an execution accuracy
 of 68.99 and a program accuracy of 64.53,
. Existing Q&A systems are mainly divided into
 two
mainstream categories, retrieval based Q&A 
systems and generation based Q&A systems.
*The system used a pre-trained language model
 called DeBERTa as its foundation.
To improve performance, the system employed 
additional techniques:
Multimodel fusion: Combining information from 
different sources within the model.
Training set combination: Using various datasets
 for training to enhance the system's 
 knowledge and capabilities.

*finally achieve the execution accuracy
of 68.99 after fine-turning and optimization, 
and
win the fourth prize in the FinQA challenge

*generally they  used  different   model  fusions  


...............ELASTIC: Numerical Reasoning with
Adaptive Symbolic Compiler

numEricaL reASoning with adapTive symbolIc 
Compiler (ELASTIC) model,
which is constituted of the RoBERTa as the
 Encoder and a Compiler with four
modules: Reasoning Manager, Operator Generator,
 Operands Generator, and
Memory Register:   
68%    finqa  and    mathQA    
it  is   domain    agnistic .
...........Program of Thoughts Prompting:
 Disentangling Computation from Reasoning 
 for Numerical Reasoning Tasks
the  reasoning    expressesd  as the    
code   of  python  
is  more    efficient    than   CoT  .
*in  context   learning 
is  wheb the prompt  has the   examples  of  
desired   outcome 
.
-go the offficial  github of  finqa.
there  you   look  at  data  which is json.
when  much time use it .
-reaaongin   of   reasoning .
...........
ELASTIC's Approach:

Separating steps: ELASTIC  

breaks down the reasoning process into two parts:
Operators: Identifying the 
mathematical operations needed 
(e.g., addition, subtraction, multiplication).
Operands: Selecting the numbers 
involved in the calculations.
Domain agnostic: ELASTIC can handle 
various types of problems and supports
 diverse operators, making it adaptable
  to different scenarios.
Memory register: ELASTIC remembers
 intermediate results from previous calculations
 , allowing it to build upon them 
 for solving more complex problems.

 ...........A Robustly Optimized Long Text to Math Models for
Numerical Reasoning On FinQA:
y. In this paper, we present our
approach to tackle the task objective by  
developing models with different specialized 
capabilities and fusing their strength. 
Overall, our
approach achieves the 1st place in FinQA 
challenge, with 71.93% execution accuracy
 and
67.03% program accuracy.

-for me it is  easier  to read paper than  for 
someone   who  does  not  speak   english. 
so  maybe  it  is   better  to  leanr 
one   discipline  well   before  
doing inter-discipline.

*FinQA evaluates the result
by two metrics, program accuracy and execution
accuracy. Program correct means that the predicted
program is logically identical to the ground truth.




*How adversarial validation helps:
Here's how it works:
Combine the training and testing data into a single dataset.
Label the samples from each set differently 
(e.g., 0 for training, 1 for testing).
Train a classifier to distinguish between 
the samples from the two sets based on their features.
Analyze the performance of the classifier.
If the classifier performs poorly (cannot accurately 
distinguish between training
 and testing samples), it indicates 
 that the data distributions are similar.
  This is a good sign.
Conversely, if the classifier performs well

 (can easily distinguish between the sets), 
 it suggests a significant difference in distributions,
  requiring further action.

-sometimes  proccess   looks  flawless
but  looking  at   others   and  latest  
innovations   you   will  realize  
that   there  is  room   for 
improvement.  

-the  intuition  says  that    i  have to 
build the   project    first   and then 
go   further   .    but   
also   seek  for the ideas for  improvement.
like    flaws  in   proccess   .   


-just  do     QA  project 
then   choose the   benchmark  
for  reasonging.  
then    create    your   own  data set  for it.
and   just  keep  experementing 

.......
Teaching Small Language Models to Reason:
*transfer   of  reasonging 
via   knowledge   distillation.

*fine tuning  the   small   with 
CoT   of  big  one .

GSM8K


